Pre-Closing
The ability to pre-close a candidate is predicated on an effective initial recruiter phone screen that:

Establishes a rapport with a candidate
Establishes the recruiter as an authority figure
Gathers information from the candidate about their
Wants
Timeline
Compensation expectations
Pre-Final Interview (Optional)
This is an optional step, not necessary for roles that have a high volume of candidates (traditionally more junior roles), only added to candidates for whom:

Are very active in their job search
More than 3 weeks have elapse since their original recruiter screen
Were hesitant about committing to compensation discussions
Are highly valuable candidates and/or potential flight risks
The conversation is relatively easy to facilitate and should be initiated under the guise of a “Final Interview Prep Call” (no candidate will deny some additional help before a final interview).

On the call, the recruiter should walk the candidate through what the final interview will consist of, who they will meet, and what each interviewer is assessing for. They should then ask the candidate if they have any questions, and then shift the focus to “checking in” since they first spoke, asking questions using the ATMS framework:

(Activity) How have things been going since we last spoke? Any updates on your end?
This is intentionally left vague. We don’t want to double down on any updates specific to their job search unless they give us nothing. We want to hear if: their child got accepted into a college, their wife just got a new job, their mother in law is coming to live with them.
If they don’t provide any information, we want to double-click and ask, “What about on the job search front? I know you mentioned you had just started interviewing when we first spoke. Any movement on any other roles that might impact your timeline with us?”
(Thoughts) How are you feeling about the role/company as you have learned more through the interview process? Does it match your expectations so far? Has there been anything surprising about the interview process?
And lastly, just wanted to circle back around and align with you on a few topics, in case things start to move quickly.
Money: When we first chatted, we discussed a salary of X for this role. Just wanted to confirm that still aligns with your expectations? Has anything changed on that front since we last spoke?
Speed: Hypothetically speaking, if this interview goes well, here’s what the rest of the process would look like on our end:
within 48 hours after the final interview, we will debrief and arrive at a decision. If we want to move forward and extend an offer, we’ll want to move quickly, particularly given the urgency for the role and (the other candidates in the process). Hypothetically speaking, if we ended up moving forward with an offer in 2-3 days that matched the compensation details we just discussed, what would your decision making process look like? How long do you think you think you would need to make a decision?
If a candidate gives any hesitation to answering this question, or says that they will need a week to make a decision, these are all opportunities for you to dig into the WHY.
A candidate that wants the job and is likely to accept will NOT need a week to think about it. If they say that, we need to understand the factors they’d need to think about, isolate them, and then address them during the final interview – proactively volunteer this intel to the hiring managers and interviewers so they can address it as well.
Pre-Offer
TODO
