Recruiter Phone Screen
Introduction [1-2 minutes]
Name	Introduce yourself by your name. This one is easy.
Pronouns	She/Her, He/Him, They/Them
Role	“I’m a recruiter here at X”.
Length/Structure of interview	This interview is 30 minutes long and I’m going to leave 5 minutes at the end for you to ask questions.
What you are assessing for	My questions are going to be focused hearing about the work you have done recently and what you are looking to do next. Any questions before we jump into it? Want to start off by giving me a high level overview of your most recent work?
Interview Body [15-20 minutes]
Assess their experience
The next 20 minutes will be spent digging into the nature of their most recent position (and perhaps previous roles, depending on the seniority of the candidate).

There isn’t a defacto way to approach every call, and your approach will largely be determined by the core competencies outlined in the hiring plan. The recruiter is responsible for identifying clear examples of experience that demonstrates, on the surface, that this candidate has the right type of experience for the role in question.

There are lots of specific questions you can ask here, if you are curious for examples, I suggest exploring some finished #hiring plans.

When you’ve gotten all the information you need, I like to transition the conversation by asking them, “Well I want to shift gears a little bit now – how familiar are you with [Company Name]?”

Company/Role Sell
This is your time to share the elevator pitch with the candidate, as well as pivot into discussing the nature of the role. 

Find the invisible hand
This is your opportunity to understand what motivates them. It also lets you plant the seeds to build rapport, understand what makes them tick, and lay the foundation for discussing comp. 

What are you looking to do next?

This is a broad way to set the tone that this is the opportunity for the candidate to discuss their wants. Responses are brief and will give you an opportunity to dig in with the following question. 
What are the top 3 most important things you are looking for in your next role?

This is a favorite question of mine. I have found that it gives candidates an opportunity to vocalize what they are really looking for, and hide it behind one or two “professional” reasons. If comp is a motivating factor for them, they will likely add it here. That tells you a lot and also will allow you to dig in to specifics. 
Where are you at in your job search? Are you just getting started or are you mid/late stages? 

This will allow you to understand their timeline. Are you actively interviewing? Do I need to move heaven and earth to get this candidate next week? Or do you have time to feel it out? 
Closing
There are a few questions I make sure to end every recruiter call with. The answer to these questions ends up in the private section in your ATS (only visible to the hiring manager and the recruiting team).

Are you able to work for any employer in the US without restriction?
Are you physically located in [location that is in alignment with company location policies]
Have you given any thought to what sort of compensation you’re looking for in your next role? 
